Docs: Backend edits (#2059)
grafana/plugin-tools: docusaurus/docs/how-to-guides/data-source-plugins/convert-a-frontend-datasource-to-backend.md

  - datasource
---

This guide shows you how to convert an existing frontend-only data source plugin into a [plugin with a backend component](../../key-concepts/backend-plugins).

To convert the frontend data source plugin into a plugin with a backend: 

1. Scaffold a new data source plugin with a backend using `npx @grafana/create-plugin@latest`. 
1. Use the following instructions to copy functionality from your original plugin into the newly created backend component.

## Why add a backend to your plugin?

> There are multiple features available only in backend components, such as Grafana Alerting, Recorded queries, or externally shared dashboards (previously called Public dashboards). Refer to the use cases for implementing a plugin backend in the [plugin backend introduction](../../key-concepts/backend-plugins/#when-to-implement-a-plugin-with-a-backend).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple features available only if a plugin has a backend component, such as Grafana Alerting, Recorded queries, or externally shared dashboards (previously called Public dashboards). Refer to the use cases for implementing a plugin backend in the [plugin backend introduction](../../key-concepts/backend-plugins/#when-to-implement-a-plugin-with-a-backend).
```
